Samantha Scott: Morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's official. We are meeting.
Gwenevere Abriel: We get to meet. Yes, yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to open up a note.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, you are, you have something to maybe a glass of water you're comfy.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pretty good. Right. Okay. Excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I do right now is I'm just going to open up a note.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm set like I'm propped up on something, I can tell. You've got me sort of set stationary
Samantha Scott: Yes, I have like three books to get my computer at the level
Gwenevere Abriel: I like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: There you go.
Gwenevere Abriel: There.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe we could kind of ease our way into this and maybe sort of transition from hey what has it been like to attend group and you start there.
Samantha Scott: It was, it was really good. I
Samantha Scott: I've never done that obviously talks. Well, I mean, I've never really talked honestly about my addiction.
Samantha Scott: I've always tried to be really honest about like my mental health struggles, like in general.
Samantha Scott: In public, you know, because I feel like it's important to
Samantha Scott: Normalize it you know
Samantha Scott: But
Samantha Scott: That said, like I've been talking like on the surface with issues that have to do with like addiction. I've never really been honest about that.
Samantha Scott: I felt different
Or
Gwenevere Abriel: And what was the feeling when you caught yourself. Oh, I said a word. I can't believe I said that phrase. I can't believe I said this thing. What, what was the emotion when you were saying, You're right before you were saying it.
Samantha Scott: Mean shame but rapidly followed by pride, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Samantha Scott: Like the one that I'm programmed to feel and the other one that is like you know the real me, I guess.
Samantha Scott: Like oh, we're talking about all the beliefs and stuff. I mean, I feel like I've got a ton of those that maybe I'm not even aware of consciously, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's
Gwenevere Abriel: You have some, I believe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Treatment as far as the psychotherapy. Right. Yeah. So when when you heard me say cognitive behavioral therapy. You're also familiar with DDT.
Gwenevere Abriel: dialectically so you're actually you have some familiarity with addressing underlying beliefs, the feeding thoughts that we
Gwenevere Abriel: Have and of course then the the emotion that follows that that is one model and it is a powerful, powerful model. It's not the only way to view what we're up to.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's a useful one.
Samantha Scott: Especially in terms of like changing behaviors right i do i do kind of look at a CVT the cognitive behavioral theory as
Gwenevere Abriel: A technique I don't look to it as the etiology. The origin of early trauma. I look to attachment theory I look to object relations when I'm looking for a groundwork. In order to understand where we formulated this conditioning like
Gwenevere Abriel: How could. How come I can't even remember how come I feel like I've been like this forever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, then I will go more to psychodynamic perspectives there. So I do, I love, I love CVT, but I don't go to it for like my understanding of why people have been this way for so long.
Samantha Scott: Trauma so yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're probably on the same page there.
Samantha Scott: I think so. Seems like
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you were
Gwenevere Abriel: talking earlier about. So was this feeling of shame. Did you notice shame.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right before you're about to say something. Or maybe, did you notice Shane as Oh she's that blend. She's going to call on me soon I hear other people talking. Did it come up, then
Samantha Scott: Yeah, and the wall. I mean, it was more like I'm like dry I'm catching myself like being
Samantha Scott: Like, as I was saying it and like, I'd say it was more when I'm like waiting for the reaction. Maybe that's how I relate to the world's. You know what I mean.
Samantha Scott: Like, like where you're like,
Samantha Scott: What are they gonna think
Samantha Scott: Is that okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice. Yes. So, so I want to go a little further back and you're giving me really good information. But I still want to be play detective here for a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: Still see if you can remember what it was like to be listening to other people and almost being were you thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not going to share this piece or I'm thinking, Oh, she shared that I'm going to
Gwenevere Abriel: My piece and
What
Samantha Scott: That all sounds really familiar. Like I'm one of the when I was in college, like, one of the things that, like, really holds me back was like
Samantha Scott: A fear of saying something and not like the fear that, like, I'm not like I've read all the materials or whatever. Right. And I've collated the information but like
Samantha Scott: I still just feel this. Like, I mean, I guess it's like a fear of talking or fear of being judged or fear of being judged. I guess I kind of look at like my interactions with the world. Like I feel like I have to like think out all the different possible ramifications of everything.
Samantha Scott: Before I do it, which is not really possible, you know, but I try
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do one more thing. Can you let me just see something
Can you
Gwenevere Abriel: Push me back about three inches or so just pushed me back just to touch. I'd like to see more of you. Um, so I, yeah, I can see more of, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, thank you. So now we share about the same amount of body.
Gwenevere Abriel: Body. Yeah, a little
Bit more
Gwenevere Abriel: And similar. So I'm hearing
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, let me check in on how does your environment respond to this style of interacting with it. In other words, if I'm trying to look ahead and predict how how how is my environment going to respond to me. And then I'm okay well
Samantha Scott: never able to be fully present
Samantha Scott: Because I'm constantly like right like I'm constantly trying to either like deal with the last decision I made know the ramifications, or like the one I just made and haven't acted on yet, but it's still, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's your experience. I'm not selling cousin, this question has to do with how do people respond to that.
Samantha Scott: Oh, you mean how do people respond with me not being fully present
Gwenevere Abriel: Well that's, that's really analytical let's go really, really simple. How do people take you. How did they respond to you.
Samantha Scott: I mean generally well
Samantha Scott: I because I'm just, I think it is because, I mean, I don't know what the right term is it for, but like empathetic or something like I'm really good at like mirror. I feel like I'm really good at mirroring people in like the real world. You know, I'm still not used to this.
Samantha Scott: To the, to the world. I'm getting used to it, but like I think it's more i don't know i think it's i feel like it has more to do with the fact that I am being really present and being aware of everything, then it does just me, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so when I heard you, Santa just want to clarify people receive you as
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you're empathetic to them and you stand them. They're like, hey, look. She understands me. So, Samantha fans. So they're enjoying the fact that you care.
About
Samantha Scott: Yeah, totally.
Samantha Scott: But maybe I mean I guess it's hard to be like one of the things I really want to be in my life is authentic.
Samantha Scott: Like I'm i feel like i mean definitely all this, like in my head nervous.
Samantha Scott: To certain degree. It's fine. But like I feel like it is definitely preventing me from like being present in the present.
Samantha Scott: Okay.
Samantha Scott: You know, and to have real authentic interactions, because if I'm constantly analyzing everything. Like, I mean, I know I have to, to some degree, but like, you know, for safety or whatever but like I feel like I
Samantha Scott: I would like to to be able to express myself more without like so much fear of what
Samantha Scott: You know, is going to be perceived
Samantha Scott: That's beautiful. So we don't even need
Gwenevere Abriel: To pull out anymore. This what you just shared today is a lot. I think we could work with just that today. So I'd like to take what
Samantha Scott: We didn't have any of this in mind whenever we started our
Samantha Scott: Good and authentic.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so, oh, I forgot I have, I have to remind because people think I'm making fun of them or something. I haven't your condition. So I have to tilt my head, you'll probably acclimate to it and
Gwenevere Abriel: You can laugh at it every time. Some of the time. So when I do this. I'm clearing my air. Just do your best.
Samantha Scott: Okay. Okay, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm glad I remember to say it again because people have gotten offended and and it really throws therapy off. I'm like,
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no, no, it's not you. I have this condition. So here's but then it comes right back. I'm so sorry if it's disruptive. But my gut was
Samantha Scott: Telling me
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: My guess is over time you'll stop seeing it most of my clients. They don't even. They're like, I only remember you doing it anymore. It'll be that frequent
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's right now I'm looking at your goal. So let's see if we can tether what we just talked about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which came up authentically and you just informed me on that. Let's also see if it's connected to some of your goals that you said earlier. So one of the things, walking in the door with me was I want to successfully use medication for time ready to get the proper skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to heal from childhood wounding oh
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, I want that for you to I want more healthy coping skills and ability to interact with an imperfect world amen to that sister.
Samantha Scott: It's, it's, it is imperfect.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: coping skills. I wonder if that's the one right there.
Samantha Scott: Yeah, I mean I feel like I'm not even I'm not even sure what my unhealthy coping skills are besides like
Samantha Scott: Obviously using drugs. That's probably that's probably one of them. Definitely using opiates. That was like a coping.
Samantha Scott: I mean, it was, it was a relief, but also it was more about like getting stuff done every day and being able to be on the level that I feel like I need to be at, you know, or whatever, it gets
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I got
Gwenevere Abriel: Here, I just love what you're saying, I'm going to put that in here so
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so here's what you said earlier, I want my in headedness, I'm thinking that analysis.
Gwenevere Abriel: That prevents me
Gwenevere Abriel: From being present.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. So what if it's what if it's over analysis. What if it's paralysis from analysis thing.
Samantha Scott: It is, I think, I definitely have some analysis paralysis.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, those are fun phrases you know
Gwenevere Abriel: And it calculates a lot, so we don't you know what I mean. Because you right
Samantha Scott: Yeah, totally. And headedness, I definitely i'm going to be using that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was yours in headedness, I've never heard it before. I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Know how to spell that is on the thing just invented
Samantha Scott: I know. I think it's totally made up i i don't know maybe
Samantha Scott: It is a thing. You know, there's a thing where like you, you come up with a thing. And like, then somebody else and like another part of the world comes up with the same thing like
Seek
Samantha Scott: It.
Gwenevere Abriel: out somehow. Yeah, I like it. So if we say I want more healthy coping skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so just now sort of organically. You said, Well, I don't know what unhealthy is. But then you answered yourself and you said, Well, I was sort of problem solving. I was solving was with a mood altering substance.
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to reach this expectation for myself and in order to reach this expectation for myself I deemed the solution is a substance, right, whether whether the expectation is a reasonable one or not. You and I don't know each other well enough to find
Gwenevere Abriel: Out I am curious. So over time, I'll get to know that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you also identified before we review the goal. It's my in headedness that prevents me from being present. I want to be more present
Samantha Scott: You want
Gwenevere Abriel: To be authentic. You also mentioned something earlier, which was
Gwenevere Abriel: You're empathetic to other people.
Samantha Scott: Right and
Gwenevere Abriel: That's where I'd like to just focus on for just a quick second. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to throw out some phrases he which one stick which ones don't.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't my ears when you. Um, have you ever thought, Ah, I'm a people pleaser.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, floor. Yeah, okay, or
Gwenevere Abriel: I care so much about other people. I kind of like haven't been refueling myself.
Samantha Scott: Yeah a lot. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's where when you were saying earlier when I said, Well, how, how does your environment respond to you. You said, well, they find me quite empathetic and, you know, yeah. So what if that skill you have which is empathy. I'm so glad you have it. A we need it to be a civilized
Gwenevere Abriel: Creature and community. We need to care about others to sort of resonate with others so that we don't take advantage of them. We don't kill them.
Right, right.
Samantha Scott: You know, there's a lot. I mean, it's particularly hard right now when like the person who's supposed to represent the entire you know country is like not modeling that behavior at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we'll compartmentalize that for just a moment and come right back to it, we're on the same page so we don't have to even we're on the same page. No worries there same. So let's go to this adaptation
Gwenevere Abriel: You developed probably over time and adaptation
Gwenevere Abriel: Of caring about others.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And it has served to
Gwenevere Abriel: You a lot like oh they stick around. We stay station. I feel rewarded by caring about others, you've gotten some some benefits from it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Definitely it's an adaptation. What I wonder is, if it's been over adaptation
Samantha Scott: Probably. I think so. I mean, when I try to be conscious. I know. Like you're raised in the South.
Samantha Scott: You are raised in a different way than a lot of other people in this country and like just sort of belief systems, whether it's a really well. They're mostly mostly unhealthy ones. There's a little bit of charm. But there's a there's, you know, racism and
Samantha Scott: It's. I'm sorry. I kind of got off track there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm good at that.
Okay.
Samantha Scott: Just remind me what I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'm what what you had a response to and and I interrupted it a bit with the wanting to maybe talk about President for a second and you went to the south.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then right. And what I did was talk about over adaptation. It's a phrase most
Samantha Scott: Views, right, because it's like we're trying to adapt adapt.
Samantha Scott: I'm not
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going further back.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not even saying the South. I'm saying
Gwenevere Abriel: In your home.
Samantha Scott: Yeah.
Samantha Scott: My home. It was not a healthy environment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's, let's just see because little people like you and I, we register, what's going to work on what's not going to work. We figured out pretty quickly.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going to get
Gwenevere Abriel: Our resources. What's going to get attention.
Samantha Scott: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going to keep this parent figure around
Samantha Scott: Positive yeah with my mom, especially
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Samantha Scott: I mean, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Me just ask this pointed question.
Gwenevere Abriel: This adaptation that you develop the one where you care about other if I care about other parent maybe mom oftentimes it's those um how early. Do you think
Gwenevere Abriel: You develop that I better care about the feelings of my caregiver or else
Samantha Scott: Guessing. I mean, knowing I don't know but
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I'm not
Samantha Scott: Really early like you know
Gwenevere Abriel: Mechanics came to mind just now.
Samantha Scott: Baby. Yeah.
Samantha Scott: Like looking at it's mom, you know, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't do analysis that you can let me do all that. Believe me, I got
Gwenevere Abriel: I got that you don't have to pay any of that.
Samantha Scott: Honestly, what came to my mind was an image of me looking up at my mom or if she was holding me and trying to like make her like me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay image.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of my mom holding me and I'm trying to make her like me.
Samantha Scott: Yeah, I'm like, looking up at her like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you get a sense of whole
Samantha Scott: Months.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really, you get a sense that you were months old.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe
Samantha Scott: like seven or eight months maybe
Samantha Scott: 10
Samantha Scott: I mean, definitely doesn't feel like one, but it gets so weird when you try to think back to like early on because it, I have this experience where like I feel like what I experienced wasn't real.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay, let's just sit with that for a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: I believe you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was real and your body probably remembers it and the reason why you can't, it's this. Like, I can't quite give you an exact is because you didn't have language.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Samantha Scott: So that makes sense that makes
Gwenevere Abriel: Sense that part of the brain wasn't wasn't there yet, but our limbic system was going, and we were responding to our environment and trying to figure out who am I, where's this there's no sort of differentiation between self and other
Samantha Scott: Right, right.
Samantha Scott: Over a little bit about that. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me what the emotion is you have right yeah what is
Samantha Scott: Sad.
Samantha Scott: Yeah, yeah. Well, not even just sad but like I feel sorry you know I feel sorry for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That little baby.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Yep.
Samantha Scott: The image of me. I feel sorry for the image of me.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you can turn to look how adaptive we are
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, yes, we can, we can feel an eye to I'm getting teary to it does I that's why I'm in this profession, right, I want
Gwenevere Abriel: I want the baby to have all the the healthy attachment
Gwenevere Abriel: And the truth is,
Gwenevere Abriel: Our parents
Gwenevere Abriel: Fail to do the necessary 30%
Samantha Scott: Right.
Samantha Scott: Right, everything. And I mean, I know you know you when you hear that you're like yeah and everybody else is coming from trauma that's in their lives and stuff but
Samantha Scott: But it doesn't
Samantha Scott: See right it's still there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So what I'm going to do right now is I'm saying it's a both. And so, yes, it's sad to be with that feeling and how sad that maybe didn't get and it was you.
Samantha Scott: Were
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And there was this the sadness was there.
Gwenevere Abriel: But where I'm starting from this is where we get to play with the cognitive. This is where we get some changes. We get to say
Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: What's that adaptation thing Bitcoin was talking about was she talking about that baby. Not only is she wired for a tournament and attachment and she was trying to do the right
Samantha Scott: Right, just a very natural thing. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is instinctual. Okay, we are social creatures. That's why our eyeballs are up here. That's why we have all of this and we'll go. I'll go into the Vegas system. Some other time but
Gwenevere Abriel: My point is adaptation. So at a very, very early age you unconsciously sound like you had the words to describe how to adapt, you will naturally adapt to your environment, and you did it.
Samantha Scott: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this adaptation adaptation of empathy caring about others will get you the resources of attention that you need.
Right.
Samantha Scott: Now,
Samantha Scott: Is that is a that is a good one. I mean, I feel like
Samantha Scott: I feel like I've been thinking about all this stuff in my head, but like, it is really not possible to put it together by yourself, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know it's not. And here's the thing, and this is what's
Gwenevere Abriel: Been interesting because I've been doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well over 20 years and and you know I've done lots and lots of reading on my own. And I'm like, Why does it not feel the same right
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, why is it, why have a therapist watch us go read a self help book.
Samantha Scott: Right, right, right, right.
Samantha Scott: But I didn't. That is, that's
Samantha Scott: I mean I feel like I've done. I mean, I have done a ton of reading. So I feel like I am definitely at the point where I don't need to do any more reading right now I'm just going to try to be authentic and listen and interact authentically
Gwenevere Abriel: So this, this is the piece that I think is
Gwenevere Abriel: I think it's intuitive. Oh, it feels good to talk to a friend feels good to talk to a trusted otherwise I feel better after I shared
Samantha Scott: Or anybody in this situation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And there's that's for the same reason you were talking about as a baby, we are wired for connection.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the simplest explanation is if the trauma was interpersonal
Gwenevere Abriel: If the rupture was an attachment rupture or failure to develop and the healing is going to be in a personal
Samantha Scott: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can do that with a book.
Samantha Scott: Right, no totally
Samantha Scott: Right, especially when you've got in headedness
Gwenevere Abriel: So what they'll probably be the overarching approach with us.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will probably be this healing around what comes up for you in here. So they'll probably going to be some
Gwenevere Abriel: Some transference where I will take on some of those attributes of that caregiver. And so you might end up being angry.
Samantha Scott: Right. But I know that anger is a thing I can get through.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're doing a lot very quickly right now, let me first. Let's take a deep breath, let's let's let's get in touch with body here real quick just nice inhale and let that air go deep into the long, not just a pie on the shoulders. But, but, inhale, expand that lower belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And exhale, it all out. Just let it all go out the mouth.
Samantha Scott: I'm really need to remember to breathe. It's funny, isn't it. Oh, like humans. It's like, it's like the automatic breathing, but it's not
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll go. I've got a lot to tell you about that. Lots and lots to learn lots to share
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's let's stay sort of narrowly focused on a couple of things.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you're not broken.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing wrong with you.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I believe that
Samantha Scott: I believe that
Gwenevere Abriel: And what may may happen in here is you may notice you may not want to show up to an appointment or you may notice resentment or you may notice a dynamic happening. And you may ask yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, why is this happening. It's not fair. And that may happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: I strongly encourage you to show up any way in here with me. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You show up angry.
Samantha Scott: Right, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if you can sit with I'm angry and sit with sharing with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm thinking this, I believe this. I'm afraid of this, you said this. This is the meaning I made out of it. You can hang in there long enough.
Gwenevere Abriel: To hear another's perspective mine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or it could be someone else. But we're the only two interacting. So it'll be someone else's perspective. And you might be that that interpersonal work that you and I do might make the difference because right time. The other object.
Samantha Scott: Right. Right. And it's impossible for me, just as a creature that is oriented, the way I am to interact with myself in the same way.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's this is one approach, you could you could come at it from from another approach, but I've watched this be effective and then over time. This that happens here well will happen in you and you won't need a therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't need any
Samantha Scott: Yeah, no, that's cool. I mean, I'm not there yet.
Samantha Scott: But I'm excited for that to possibly be a say that I am
Gwenevere Abriel: So beautiful. So
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm getting to learn just in this sort of organic conversation this this dialogue kind of getting to know kind of words, you already know I'm getting, you know, kind of your beliefs. I already know a little political perspective, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: To know you know some bigger things that
Gwenevere Abriel: That will will really inform where we go. So let's let's tether back. Let's turn it back to your goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm
Samantha Scott: The author
Samantha Scott: The, the one about being present.
Samantha Scott: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, what you what I have written is I want more healthy coping skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we'll see to interact with an imperfect world. Can we talk about the second part of that for a second ability to interact
Gwenevere Abriel: And our imperfect world. And that's that political conversation. So there it is, right, it's, it is very imperfect. It's selfish, it's it's narcissistic it's greedy, it's self serving and it can be on empathetic.
Samantha Scott: Yes, absolutely.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there we are again to our original conversation. It's you interacting with this world and this world interacting with you. And so there we are, again, but there it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how am I hearing you say you want to maintain this authentic self with this world.
Samantha Scott: Yes. Okay.
Samantha Scott: That's really important because we're going to be here. Like, it's not
Samantha Scott: You know, hopefully, right, and it's not going to change and and I feel like one of the things I've tried to do in the past is like overly mystify and like over plan and stuff like that. And I want to
Samantha Scott: I do feel like that's important. Like, I want to bring up my authentic self. I want to bring empathy. I want to bring all these things to my interaction with the world, and whoever I interact with, but I it's hard because
Samantha Scott: Of all this personal stuff, you know, and so
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let me say back to you a little bit of what you said.
Samantha Scott: Okay, yeah, I can see I don't even have an idea like I'm like I said it. This is a really interesting experience for me because I am I'm trying to be like totally authentic not plan out what I'm going to say, and is not comfortable, but it is important.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you uncomfortable right now.
Samantha Scott: No, I mean I'm just, I'm just
Samantha Scott: Trying to like know that that I generally if I don't plan. What I would say in advance. I feel uncomfortable saying
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's let's take a deep breath together. Let's do belly breath Breathing in and have that belly expand that air going deep into the alarm.
Gwenevere Abriel: An exhale out.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if it was also. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you are uncomfortable with your therapist. What if it was okay.
Samantha Scott: It is okay.
Samantha Scott: Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tune in
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tune into you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And see, let's label how you are actually what emotion.
Gwenevere Abriel: You would label how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Now what label, do you give now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hopeful yeah
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not uncomfortable.
No.
Samantha Scott: Honestly, right now, I do not feel uncomfortable.
Samantha Scott: Talking about feeling uncomfortable, but I do not like
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so here's I'm going to reflect back a little bit of when I heard you say, and I love words, by the way, so I'll think playing with words, a lot, a lot, a lot of
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. Yes. With your, your, sort of that that profession, you're in
Gwenevere Abriel: You might have some fun with it. But it might, it also might be uncomfortable because you have a meaning that you have accumulated over time, those words have meaning that I wasn't present for when we
Gwenevere Abriel: Learned them.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't have those memories I have my own. So all have one thing that I grabbed over time it will have these little things attached to them. And so we'll, we'll bump into some that we don't have shared meaning and will overcome them, and we'll, we'll learn
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I heard was
Gwenevere Abriel: Your adaptations have been to people, please, aka empathy that has an adaptive it's gotten you friends and fun and some things
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And also I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Control.
Samantha Scott: And and i know that that was there was something I was going to bring up a few minutes of a few minutes ago, the
Samantha Scott: See I'm over planning, I try so hard for me to talk like without plenty. When I say I'm
Samantha Scott: I'm
Samantha Scott: Well, I'm I
Gwenevere Abriel: I can help.
Samantha Scott: You, yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for people. Right. You have this, this, you have this beautiful mind that has all these cool pieces of information.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so then you have choices. Well, is this the right way. Is this the right word. And how do I want to say. So there's a lot that might get in the way of the spontaneous.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, and so my invitation to you is, and you'll hear this a lot. It'll be interviewed you'll hear it in group and you'll hear it just all kind of come at a different places.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it may seem on the front end oversimplified
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you don't push back at me and fight against it, you might like it isn't. It's a simple little technique and yes
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel an emotion word, and that's it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Start they're
Gwenevere Abriel: Not like this is the temptation our language will do this. We're used to saying, I feel that you will be going into a story as soon as that third word comes out of your mouth, where you're gone. Your
Gwenevere Abriel: Glory, so that third word can only be. This is where it may artificial unconstrained but there's actually freedom in this this simple structure.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel angry disgusted repulsed Excited, hopeful, optimistic paranoid jealous afraid, insecure exuberant you know you've got lots of fun words.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, if you can go there and just slowing time down to a nice slow three word beat. I feel
And start there for
Gwenevere Abriel: An emotion word
Samantha Scott: Anxious.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, so now, see if you can find a thought. Just one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm slowing it down by talking slowly on purpose. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you can find a thought.
Gwenevere Abriel: That follows that that feeds that so it might be this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel anxious when I do to do or I feel anxious when when you need to.
Gwenevere Abriel: Finish that sentence.
Samantha Scott: Um,
Samantha Scott: I feel anxious when something comes out of my mouth that I haven't planned.
Samantha Scott: I feel anxious talking I feel anxious about trying to be authentic, you know, I feel anxious about
Samantha Scott: About about trying to engage with the world on
Samantha Scott: A real non analytical basis, um,
Samantha Scott: And I guess I I feel more
Samantha Scott: Anxious about
Samantha Scott: Interacting with myself without with being like real and authentic and spontaneous because that's the one you know I mean like, I mean, I'm not like somebody who's scared to cry. I actually enjoy, you know, a good, a good cry but I
Samantha Scott: It's just, it's just this constant fight against trying to like overanalyze what I'm, what I'm saying, I'm working on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what was your experience and we're not going into any of the somatic stuff right now. The only thing that I've done in your in the body work is I just kind of tethered you back to the breath here and again and again.
Gwenevere Abriel: You've done a couple of times. But there's going to be some invitation to do quite a bit more of that. And so you're going to have a chance to get out of analysis, you'll run straight into there's nowhere to go but I just gotta, I gotta feel
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's typically how I can go to imagery and there's lots of other places to go. That will give you a chance to be in
Gwenevere Abriel: That uncomfortable.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, like she right at the edge of this is I don't what huh. So there's going to be moments for that right now. We're still sort of staying up here. Okay, and
Gwenevere Abriel: They'll be a place for you to
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's stay here.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's the
Gwenevere Abriel: What was it like for you to be to conform to that artificial structure that I asked you to do in here. I said, just say I feel and finish the sentence. What was that experience like for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hard. Yeah.
Samantha Scott: It definitely doesn't come naturally. Um, you know, but I'm I wanted to do it i wanna i want to be authentic, I want to push past all these weird
Samantha Scott: Protective or whatever they are mechanisms, you know, to make sure my argument or line of thought is six lines during six jumps down the way. You know, and just be real. So
Gwenevere Abriel: How will you measure authenticity.
Samantha Scott: I guess it's just going to have to be a feeling because I don't know how else to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's check just to be
Samantha Scott: Honest, and to be like, and to be like, Am I, am I being authentic or am I still playing
Gwenevere Abriel: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: When
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel anxious when I don't have
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of a planned out, I feel, I feel anxious because I don't have planned out what I'm going to say was that authentic to me.
Samantha Scott: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Samantha Scott: I think so.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that didn't take six months.
Right.
Samantha Scott: Right.
Samantha Scott: pregame and
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, yeah. So
Gwenevere Abriel: We can get some surprise experiences from things in there sort of simple state, I feel that seems like I could have done that. Well, why, why do I need you therapist for that nonsense. Okay, well,
Gwenevere Abriel: You want things authentic. What's more authentic than what that vessel that body, mind, which is all in the same skin out. Right, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: How much more authentic. Is it, then, what it's going through in the moment. Yeah. So what your emotion is is one way to know itself how the viscera has a stomach is doing, how the breathing is doing, how the hearts doing how the muscles are doing
Gwenevere Abriel: That's another way. That's the soma. So you're going to be hearing about
Gwenevere Abriel: Bits about awareness. Those there's going to be some maybe there's some messages coming from there too. And then there's the mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: The mind that wanders, and what's the opinion of the mind that were soul is and what is the mind and who am I, am I my thinking brain Am I accountable for my actions with just my thoughts and it can go on and on and on and on.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: If you say you identify, to the best of your ability, your emotion and you did to the best of your ability, what the thought was
Gwenevere Abriel: That maybe had something to do with that emotion or that experience of it was an absence of of sort of this control and predictability and it brought some anxiousness that was an honest experience.
Samantha Scott: It's like cure. I feel I guess another word that goes along with it is like I feel like I know we all do, to some degree, but like I feel like I want to less cure rate my thoughts and and
Samantha Scott: who I really am in terms of especially in terms of this process. But in general, but, you know, especially in terms of this process.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you doing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now, are you curating.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's look at language. Let's have some fun with this. Notice that I was kind of giving a heads up that we do our storytelling quite a bit. Notice you said, I feel like
Samantha Scott: That's a story right
Gwenevere Abriel: What is it like for you to be a curator, even in here, which is about
Gwenevere Abriel: Your growth. What is it like for you. What's the emotion as a curator.
Samantha Scott: It's scary.
Gwenevere Abriel: Isn't it
Samantha Scott: Yeah, like, I mean it's
Samantha Scott: A while not being a curators scary.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah
Samantha Scott: But so, and I mean I guess that just plays into it because I'm like
Samantha Scott: Just so, uh, but I mean it's just going to be a process. I'm just gonna have to keep, like you said, right. You gotta show up, you feel uncomfortable and
Samantha Scott: You know, and just keep doing it. And I do want to do it. I want to do the work I do.
Samantha Scott: So,
Samantha Scott: We just keep going.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you think
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm the worst client one's ever had. What if you have that time. Ah.
Samantha Scott: Do I think I would have that thought.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now try that. Sometimes my audio doesn't work perfectly well.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. What if you thought, I'm the worst client when have you ever had. What if
Samantha Scott: That would be a horrible.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why I phrase it the way I did notice
Gwenevere Abriel: As I said, it is
Gwenevere Abriel: You are going to be incorrect.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think that's exactly where you need to be
Samantha Scott: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: A hot mess and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a very controlling person I got oodles of it. I got time measurable time framed quotes I got going on as far as control.
Samantha Scott: Birth
Gwenevere Abriel: And analysis. That's what you're paying me for insurances or whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just got to do you
Gwenevere Abriel: You've
Gwenevere Abriel: Been you've already been doing and taking care of another object.
Gwenevere Abriel: IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO TUNE IN. TUNE IN. Doesn't matter what I think.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Doesn't matter if I think and I threw out the worst thing that could possibly be your mind worst client ever
Right.
Samantha Scott: That's pretty bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't exist like that, that that's a paradox. It doesn't exist. The
Samantha Scott: Black and white thinking like, it's like if you aspire to be my favorite
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't get there. You won't get what you need.
Yeah.
Samantha Scott: I promise I won't try to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it happens.
Samantha Scott: It'll happen on call. No, no, I and I am. I mean, because that's I'm a people pleaser. And like, like I was saying earlier, when you're raised in the South. I feel like it's very different from being raised. Well, maybe not. But in the American style like it's very
Samantha Scott: You make people happy. You know, and you're good. Nice, especially if you're a woman.
Gwenevere Abriel: In here, it's going to be different. And I have to say I probably look like and I have to overcome a lot of sort of bias. I think people have made up their
Samantha Scott: Bond. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That I drive a convertible. And then I was a cheerleader. And I have to overcome a lot of things.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I've tried it the other way, cut my hair off died at Brown. I've done worn a suit. I have tried to fight this concept of transference and it doesn't matter what I look like I will be your grandfather or your father be an abusive.
Samantha Scott: You know perpetrator with this case, my mom, my mom and my dad, but like, I've already talked like a ton about my dad. I've never talked about my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, I gotta say you you
Gwenevere Abriel: Can come at me with whatever is coming up, but I'm trying to give some some little like bumpers, you know in a in a area. It's like
Gwenevere Abriel: Little bits to give you some idea of the room in which you can
Play an explorer.
Gwenevere Abriel: And some of those boundaries are. You don't have to take care of me.
Samantha Scott: Right.
You're being
Gwenevere Abriel: The good client will rob you of the work, you may need
Samantha Scott: Okay, I've got it right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Samantha Scott: You're right in it, and I have to be aware of that, because I know it's a concept. I know it's a part of my personality and I know that all that good feeling that I like sometimes associated with my mom is all
Samantha Scott: About me just like mirroring her back to herself, as she wants to be perceived so I definitely need to be cautious about I want you to like me. But if you don't, it's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Easier said than done.
Samantha Scott: Though it's definitely, definitely. But I'm going to, but that is the mind frame that I'm gonna that I'm going to put myself in
Gwenevere Abriel: And all I'll bring it up here and there. When I see it.
Samantha Scott: Right heavy
Gwenevere Abriel: heavy handed, but I won't always bring it sometimes it just you're you. You're going to have to feel the self betrayal. I will be out of it. You'll have to be like what just wasted frickin our
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you know,
Samantha Scott: That'll be on your right
Gwenevere Abriel: Exactly. So this stuff is subtle, it's your only job is to do you
Gwenevere Abriel: Change.
Gwenevere Abriel: From this second to this moment. Now this is emerging. Now this is coming up. Now this I'm irritated with you when I don't want to talk
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I just want to run out of here. I'm calling out of my skin. Well, I'm excited. Oh, I feel so smart. I'm smarter than you. I don't care what it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't write I care about you not i'm not hung up on an expectation. I have about it, but my guess is based on just the little bits that you've given me these these these spaces that that you you kind of set yourself up for I'm going to just be intelligent again and I'm going to
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll just do what I always did.
Gwenevere Abriel: Adaptation and
Gwenevere Abriel: Somebody is to say we're not going to lose that you're not going to lose your ability to connect with people.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, because
Gwenevere Abriel: You get irritated in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not going to lose this i'm not going anywhere.
Samantha Scott: Right, okay.
Samantha Scott: Knowing
Samantha Scott: Definitely knowing something is different than feeling it, but I know that
Samantha Scott: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll know it when when you probably get offended.
Samantha Scott: Right. Well, I mean, the thing is, like, I feel like I mean obviously I'm not super experienced but like I feel like the nature of this relationship.
Samantha Scott: I mean in terms of I feel like this is the right fit for me because I am I have to. I'm doing this thing of being authentic and being present and you are going to be here for me to help me and to facilitate it and I am going to work. I am going to make it a sincere effort to
Samantha Scott: To not please you.
Samantha Scott: Mean
Samantha Scott: You know anyway.
Gwenevere Abriel: I do be my worst
Samantha Scott: Yes, I
Try
Samantha Scott: I will try to not please you, unless
Samantha Scott: Simply who I am. Does
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll be an interesting navigation, but that invitation is there and when you bump into it. And if you have to go to your journal. First, if it's like, Okay, I'll just, I'll just write this stuff down. Let me see it on paper. First, you know, and it gets some distance from it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: The, the direction in general that I think I'd like to go and I will get your consent along the way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is
Gwenevere Abriel: The next time we meet
Gwenevere Abriel: I think I'd like to teach. I teach everyone I typically even in the first session. I didn't today. I really just kind of wanted to wander around and see kind of where your mindset was, I'd like to teach formally
Gwenevere Abriel: My version of the building breathing box breathing the die for matic breathing. I want to teach it sort of my version of it kind of watch you do it with me. Yeah.
Samantha Scott: I have a real that's going to, I mean in terms of, like, can I take a breath. Yes, I can take a breath, but like in terms of
Samantha Scott: It. I think it all has to do, it's all tied in with that like authentic presence thing and control and curation and what we've
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah so might my guess is so the plan right now will probably be to do that, depending on what comes up for you the next time we meet
Gwenevere Abriel: And then so that is a coping skill.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's so much more than that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can go into as much theory as much of the poly bagel theory as you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can take it could take the whole session like that's like taking a breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, is that important.
Samantha Scott: It's definitely something that I'm interested in. I have a little bit of knowledge about it but not very much compared to
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll just, I'll say that. And then so, because again, I'll be doing that. Take a peek at kind of how that's received how it's practiced and then we'll, we'll kind of go from there.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you want to meet again.
Samantha Scott: Well, this, this time was I'm generally a lot better in the in the later in the day, but it depends on what your schedule, what you have
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I don't see why her health plans. I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: An afternoon. Yeah.
Samantha Scott: Okay, so what would be a late time for you or it's a convenient time
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm looking, I'm a old school.
Samantha Scott: Like even like in terms of like 10 or 11 is better than eight or nine
Gwenevere Abriel: And your group one more time.
Samantha Scott: It is Tuesday at noon.
Oh,
Samantha Scott: Yeah, that was a really good group.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that was fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so here's I'm going to kind of tell you how I anticipate this going
Samantha Scott: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it'll be a transition period where we may have net one week or two, where we're kind of still clunking around trying to get a spot that works well for you because I'm booked. But once you get it. I start protecting that time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Yeah. So there's these next couple weeks might still be a little inconvenient as I
Gwenevere Abriel: As I work out some consistency for you.
Samantha Scott: It's all good. I am in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I will say,
Gwenevere Abriel: We already have something for next week.
Samantha Scott: I read his pretend
Gwenevere Abriel: A her for 910 is fine. Let's. I mean, if that works for you. Let's go with that for now.
And
Samantha Scott: I can be flexible because right now. This is the only like commitment that I have, which is insane, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do that. I've got you in for two weeks.
Gwenevere Abriel: I also have my
Samantha Scott: Wednesday at two.
Samantha Scott: So I was at 10 sorry
Gwenevere Abriel: I have, and I'll say them. We got April 29 which is a Wednesday.
Gwenevere Abriel: at 10am Mountain Standard and then
Gwenevere Abriel: May six,
Samantha Scott: Okay, cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so I will see one group now is their medication bridge today. In other words, are you going to have enough to get you all the way to next Tuesday.
Samantha Scott: Yes, I just got my prescription picked it up last night.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna go there on time.
Samantha Scott: So do I may with so I don't meet with Dr. I mean, besides group where she is. I don't need to make an appointment with Dr embryo. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, just, it's just need in there.
Samantha Scott: And then, and then the group.
Samantha Scott: Yeah, go.
Samantha Scott: Ahead.
Gwenevere Abriel: And look forward to seeing you on Tuesday.
Samantha Scott: Me too. I really feel like I made a lot of progress and this it just in terms of like clarifying stuff in terms and I'm just keep working on, you know, trying to be authentic and
Samantha Scott: Working to be your worst
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me gray hair haha
Samantha Scott: I've got some already
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well, I'm working with you. I'll see you on
Samantha Scott: Thank you. Goodbye.